001 - Bulbasaur

	For its entire life, Bulbasaur carries a plant on its back. The bulb grows and blossoms as Bulbasaur matures. It is packed with nutrients which nurture the young Bulbasaur.

	It loves lying in the sun to feed its plant.

002 - Ivysaur

	Ivysaur's plant has matured after its evolution, emanating a pleasant and distinctive fragrance. The bud is deceptively heavy - Ivysaur can no longer stand on its hind legs, and its body grows more muscular to support the weight of the mature plant.

003 - Venusaur

	Having fully bloomed, the plant Venusaur carries on its back takes on vivid colors. It photosynthesizes to provide Venusaur with limitless energy, who is constantly on the move to seek out sunlight.

	Venusaur can often be seen in the summer, when they gather to reproduce.

	Mega Venusaur

		The flower absorbs almost all the energy from Mega Evolution to grow wildly, now comprising almost half of its body mass. Venusaur is forced to use the leftover energy to strengthen its leg muscles, just to support the flower's weight.

	G-Max Venusaur

		The flower's petals have grown so thick and heavy that they sag over the sides of Venusaur's body, providing it with a helmet-like layer of armor. It continuously erupts with pollen and makes the nearby air unbreathable.

004 - Charmander

	A small and energetic lizard Pokémon that loves hot places. The flame on the end of its tail is tied to its health and emotional state - a happy and healthy Charmander's tail will burn intensely. It's hot enough to vaporize rain instantly.

005 - Charmeleon

	Charmeleon has conscious control over the state of its tail-flame, and can force it to burn ferociously at will. It fights barbarically, whipping about its tail and slashing with its claws.

	Charmeleon's tails always burn brightly and are visible from a distance. In the mountains where they live, a pack of Charmeleon at night is a captivating sight.

006 - Charizard

	A winged beast that breathes fire hot enough to melt stone. The powerful wings it gains upon evolving allow it to fly up to 1.4km, soaring through the valleys of their mountainous habitats. Though ferocious predators, they will not torch prey weaker than them, awaiting strong opponents to use its fiery breath. A Charizard's tail-flame burns hotter as it gains experience in battle.

	Conservation efforts have to monitor Charizard populations, as they are known to accidentally start forest fires.

	Mega Charizard X

		The power of Mega Evolution awakens Charizard's latent Dragon type and allows it to reach dizzying temperatures. Its scales are scorched black and its flames burn blue-hot. It becomes extremely agitated and fights up-close with its draconic claws.

	Mega Charizard Y

		Mega Evolution allows Charizard to project its immense temperatures over a wide area, boiling water and rapidly causing heatstroke in humans. It boasts incredible speed and maneuverability, and torches the surroundings with wild abandon.

	G-Max Charizard

		Charizard's flames continuously emanate from its body and enwreath its wings. Though it becomes ground-bound, its power is like a living volcano. It roars to muster ever-hotter flames.

007 - Squirtle

	Squirtle is born with a soft shell that gradually hardens as it grows. The shell is not just for protection - a series of grooves on its surface help minimise water resistance, allowing it to glide through the water faster. When frightened it will tuck its legs into its shell and spray foam from its mouth. Poking the shell will usually cause Squirtle to emerge again.

008 - Wartortle

	Very long-lived despite being an eager battler, its age can be told by the scratches on its shell. Its slick furry tail changes in color, becoming a richer blue as it ages. The tail is a symbol of longevity.

009 - Blastoise

	Its broad, heavy shell contains a series of tubes that allow it to shoot blasts of pressurized water. It refills its water supply by unhinging its jaw and swallowing gallons at a time. The water jets are incredibly accurate and powerful, able to punch holes through steel.

	Blastoise can also move using the water jets as thrusters, for high-speed tackles.

	Mega Blastoise

		The single water jet on its enormous shell is incredibly heavy. When preparing to fire, Mega Blastoise stands on all fours to brace itself for the immense recoil. The water jets on its arms are just to help it stand up afterwards.

	G-Max Blastoise

		Blastoise's accurate water jets are replaced by an enormous battery of guns, which it fires at random. It thirstily absorbs moisture from the air and soil to restore its ammunition.

010 - Caterpie

	The suction cup feet on the bottom of its body allow it to climb any surface, slowly but surely. It is very weak and relies on its antenna to repel predators, which releases a horrific stench when it's frightened. Caterpie has an immense appetite and spends all its time devouring leaves many times bigger than itself so it can evolve quickly.

011 - Metapod

	The cocoon stage of a Caterpie's life, when it grows a thick protective shell and stays still so it can reconstruct its body. It doesn't eat, relying on all the food it stored up in its stomach as a Caterpie. Metapod is one of the most rapidly-evolving Pokémon in the world, and will evolve into its final form before long.

012 - Butterfree

	The mature form of Caterpie, which has emerged from Metapod's shell as a new creature. Uses its keen sense of smell to locate flowers, where it rubs honey into its legs to take back to its nest. Its wings are covered in hydrophobic scales that allow it to fly even in rain. The scales flake off easily and are also extremely poisonous. Butterfree attacks by flapping its wings to scatter poison into the air.

	Butterfree facilitates the pollination of flowers, so anywhere it lives will soon be overrun with flowers. It can be found competing with Cutiefly for honey.

	G-Max Butterfree

		Its wings grow immensely in size and power. The poisonous scales become blindingly bright and continually flake off, making the air unbreathable. It can beat its wings to produce great suffocating hurricanes.

013 - Weedle

	A relative of Caterpie, with a similarly rapid lifecycle and voracious appetite, eating its weight in leaves every day. It is aggressive for its size, stabbing predators with its venomous forehead needle. It's also a picky eater, with a strong sense of smell that allows it to find its favorite types of leaves.

014 - Kakuna
	
	The chrysalis stage of a Weedle's life, it grows a thick shell and stays motionless to reconstruct its body. Predators often assume it's defenseless, but Kakuna can move just enough to jab the venomous stinger outside of its shell. The process of metamorphosis releases a lot of energy, so the shell is warm to the touch.

015 - Beedrill

	A fast and aggressive bug Pokémon, Beedrill live in nests together and violently defend their territory. It confounds its prey with speed, attacking with its three large poison stingers. The only way to train Beedrill is by raising one from Weedle or Kakuna, as approaching Beedrill nests is extremely dangerous. They instinctively protect the vulnerable Weedle and Kakuna of their nest.

	Mega Beedrill

		Mega Evolution makes its stingers longer and heavier, and transforms its legs into even more stingers. Because it has no legs, Mega Beedrill is forced to remain airborne constantly. Its limb-stingers have a paralyzing poison that stuns its enemies.

206 - Dunsparce

	Its tail works like a drill, and it is prone to panicking when spotted, haphazardly boring into the ground to escape predators. This lowly creature is most comfortable underground, where it digs complex, maze-like nests in the soil, navigating by the scent of the dirt. When Diglett and Dunsparce are found in the same location, it's known to lazily live in the tunnels Diglett leaves behind. When not foraging for food, it rests motionless in its nest.

	Its tiny vestigial wings somehow allow it to float a short distance off the ground. Supposedly, its ancient ancestors soared through the sky. Otherwise, it is a wholly unremarkable creature.

624 - Pawniard
	
	A consummate soldier whose entire body is made of metal blades. They hunt in small platoons under the command of a Bisharp, and fight ruthlessly and without regard for their own pain.

	Pawniard dutifully sharpens and polishes its blades using stones found by the river. They tend to be sentimental about the stones they use.

625 - Bisharp

	The vicious blades covering its entire body allow it to lacerate prey with little effort. In the wild, each Bisharp commands a platoon of Pawniard. A Pawniard that evolves into a Bisharp graduates from its group and is expected to find a group of young Pawniard to train. Although each Bisharp remembers its comrades for life, they will usually never meet again.

	Regardless of its strength, Bisharp's honor code compels it to retire if the crescent blade on its head is chipped. Pawniard mutinies are also not unheard of, and a Bisharp that cannot hold its own when hunting may be driven from the group in hopes of finding a new leader. Such lone Bisharp often end up in the employ of Trainers.

878 - Cufant

	Cufant's skin is made of copper. It starts orange and slowly tarnishes over time, forming vibrant teal patterns. They live in herds and spend their mornings scouring caves for the ore on which they feed. The flat, pointed end of its trunk is made of solid metal, and Cufant uses it to break down rocks to bring to the Copperajah in its flock. Its digestive system isn't yet developed enough to digest large rocks, so it gets the Copperajah to pulverize ores into a powder so it can eat.

	Because of their strength and generally docile nature, teams of Cufant are often trained for physical labor.

879 - Copperajah

	They live in herds and are gentle and nurturing to the young Cufant. Incredible strength is contained within its trunk, allowing it to pound boulders into dust. They are prideful, and especially vibrant patterns of rust on their skin command respect from other Copperajah.

	G-Max Copperajah

		The coiled trunk contains a frightening amount of power, enough to utterly demolish large buildings in a single blow. Its immense weight allows it to perform slow but unstoppable tackles.

880 - Dracozolt

	A so-called "fossil Pokémon" created by irresponsible scientists, using parts from an avian herbivore and a draconic land-dweller. Dracozolt has to balance itself by raising its tail in an odd stance because its front half is far too light. If this species existed historically, it would not have enough plant food sources to sustain its immense musculature. It seems to enjoy its powerful body, though.

881 - Arctozolt

	A so-called "fossil Pokémon" created by irresponsible scientists, using parts from an avian herbivore and an arctic fish. Although the body comes from a sea-dwelling Pokémon, it cannot actually swim due to the awkward body plan, and the front half cannot actually breathe underwater. As a result it has to walk on its fins, which is extremely slow. It shivers constantly, stimulating the electrical organs in its front half.

882 - Dracovish

	A so-called "fossil Pokémon" created by irresponsible scientists, using parts from a carnivorous fish and a draconic land-dweller. For some reason, the paleontologists who reconstructed it placed the head on the end of the draconic half's tail. Its powerful legs allow it to reach a land speed of 40 mph to pursue its prey. If this Pokémon existed in nature it would be a highly effective predator, with one caveat: it can only breathe underwater.

883 - Arctovish

	A so-called "fossil Pokémon" created by irresponsible scientists, using parts from a carnivorous fish and an arctic fish. It can hunt prey by freezing its surroundings. However, it's almost impossible for Arctovish to eat by itself because its mouth is on top of its head.

884 - Duraludon

	Its reflective white body is made of an extremely strong and light metal alloy, making it light and agile. It rusts easily however, so Duraludon lives in caves where it can avoid rain and excessive moisture. As a result, Duraludon competes with Tyranitar for its preferred habitat, and the two species can often be seen fighting. It uses its asymmetric arms to grind down particular types of rocks for its diet.

	The lustrous alloy that makes up its body still cannot be replicated by modern science. Duraludon is rare and hard to capture, and the sheer hardness of the alloy makes it difficult to take samples of - to say nothing of the risks of angering a Duraludon by damaging its pristine chassis.

	G-Max Duraludon

		In this form Duraludon's body becomese exponentially more complex, now sporting transparent glass-like elements, through which a mysterious light is visible. Its bottom-heavy structure is resistant to impacts and tremors, making it impossible to knock over.

885 - Dreepy

	Believed to be the lingering spirit of a Pokémon that died in prehistoric times, Dreepy returns to the areas it inhabited in life. Unusually among ghost and dragon Pokémon, it's very social, preferring to live with other members of its species. It continually pesters and frightens other wild Pokémon. Groups of them can be seen playing in the evening, racing over the ocean as the sun sets.

	Though weak, Dreepy retains the knowledge it had in its previous life, and has enormous potential if allowed to train and evolve.

886 - Drakloak

	Drakloak can reach speeds of 200km/h and accelerate astonishingly fast thanks to its ectoplasmic body. Its powerful lungs allow it to accumulate draconic energy by breathing rhythmically.

	Even though they're never in any danger, Drakloak instinctively dote on Dreepy, carrying the smaller Pokémon on their heads, and battling alonogside them until they evolve. Drakloak gets uneasy if it doesn't have a Dreepy on its head and will try to replace it with any small Pokémon it finds.

887 - Dragapult

982 - Dudunsparce

	Though a notoriously lethargic species, a rare few Dunsparce excel in life, mustering all their will and energy to grow a new segment. Its drill-tail is far more powerful than its predecessor's: the complex nests where it feels most comfortable can reach into the bedrock, up to six miles underground. Powerful lungs allow it to exhale blasts of air to drive out unwanted guests.

	Perhaps because of its own lowly nature earlier in life, Dudunsparce is sympathetic to other creatures, and will gently guide Pokémon that wander into its nest by mistake.

983 - Kingambit

	A Bisharp that truly excels in its role as a commander may steadily acquire more Pawniard soldiers and pick fights with other platoons. Gaining strength and respect, they evolve into the terrible and majestic Kingambit. The antisocial attitude of Pawniard and Bisharp usually prevent them from forming large groups, but a respected Kingambit may overcome this to command true armies.

	In the seat of luxury, the blades covering its body recede, and the great horn-blade on its head grows immensely. Though this blade is somewhat impractical in combat, Kingambit's subordinates are captivated by it.

1007 - Koraidon

	One of the apocryphal Paradox Pokémon generated by the Area Zero incident. It seems to be related to Cyclizar.

	Koraidon's adaptable body allows it to navigate any terrain with ease. It matches the description of the "Winged King", a terrible prehistoric apex predator. Its intelligence and immense musculature allowed it to sit at the top of the food chain.

1008 - Miraidon

	One of the apocryphal Paradox Pokémon generated by the Area Zero incident. It seems to be related to Cyclizar.

	Miraidon's immaculate design allows it to navigate any terrain with ease. It matches the description of the "Iron Serpent", a ruthless machine of destruction. Its robotic demeanor make its true intentions impossible to gauge.