Kanto

	What Kanto lacks in environmental diversity it more than makes up for with its culturally rich metropolitan areas and historical legacy. Kanto's Indigo League is known for having produced some of the greatest Pokémon trainers on the planet.

	Saffron City is at the center of Kanto, a bustling inland metropolis connected to Johto's Goldenrod City by a great monorail. Ancient Mt. Silver rises in the west, the traditional seat of the Indigo League. The southern coastline breaks down into small islands like volcanic Cinnabar. Further south is the Sevii archipelago, a small, mostly unpopulated region also governed by the Indigo League.

Johto

	In contrast to the urbanism and international excellence of its neighbor, Johto prides itself on quiet tradition, evident in its abundance of tranquil villages, temples and teeming wildlife. At the economic heart of Johto is Goldenrod City, which is connected to its Kantonian sister-city Saffron by an impressive monorail that goes under Mt. Silver.

	The landscape of Johto is revered by its rural populations. The forests and mountains to the north

Hoenn

Sinnoh

	Sinnoh is a northern island nation and distant neighbor of Kanto and Johto. It rises from the sea and boasts wildly rolling grassland hills and mountains, eventually giving way to a great mountain ridge at the center which bisects the island. At the heart is Mt. Coronet, one of the highest peaks in the world. At the summit are the sacred holy site of Spear Pillar, which is said to have existed since the beginning of time.

	SInnoh has an ever-present air of mystery, complimented by the region's numerous holy sites and religious traditions. The temperate hilly landscape gives way to deciduous forestry in the north, then frigid tundra.

Unova

Kalos

Alola

	Culturally and physically isolated from much of the rest of the world for thousands of years, the island nation of Alola remains alive and culturally vibrant to this day. The bulk of Alola's population lives on the archipelago's four largest landmasses - Melemele, Akala, Ula'ula and Poni islands. Alola's villages and towns are largely self-governing, with the kahuna of each island stepping in to handle important decisions. Although it lacks a conventional league, Alola has its own tradition of Pokémon training, in the form of an ancient ritual of pilgrimage across the four islands.

	More recently, Alola has been a hotbed of scientific research into the lowest and highest parts of the world. The region is conveniently located near several tectonic faultlines, allowing divers - and Pokémon - to reach unimaginable depths. Alola's abundant mountain ranges and minimal light pollution also make the region ideal for high-altitude observatories, which chart the stars and monitor the activities of stratospheric and cosmic Pokémon.

Galar

Paldea